[Music]
important stuff here 5 reasons why
hugging can hurt certain people you know
humans do a lot of weird things changing
their voice to a higher pitch when they
talk to babies slowing down on the
highway when they see someone pulled
over on the side of the road and
awkwardly wrapping their arms around
people they barely know when they enter
a room who does that last one sound
familiar
yeah we're talking about hugging well
most humans are totally cool with
dishing out hugs all day many people
feel very uncomfortable doing it but why
is it that some people don't like
hugging and how can you spot this kind
of person so that you don't scare them
away with a warm embrace well before we
figure it all out don't forget to click
the subscribe button and turn on
notifications to join us on the bright
side of life so what do funerals
graduations and parties have in common
aside from a wide assortment of food in
an awkward grandma or two they're filled
with people who want to hug each other
whether they know one another or they're
meeting for the first time people tend
to hug each other as a form of warm
greeting while this motion is widely
used around the world and we're taught
to do it from an early age there are
plenty of people who absolutely hate
hugging in fact many of these people
hate touching other people in general
but what makes a person not want to be
touched believe it or not the reasons
may be more deeply rooted than you think
there are many reasons why a person
might not like to be touched
one it's all about the way they were
raised one theory of why people don't
like touching and hugging is simply due
to the fact that it didn't happen a lot
in their home as they were growing up
well that's what one Swedish study
proved back in 2012 the study was
published in the journal comprehensive
psychology and focused on finding out
why hugging actually took place among
people and the emotions or physical
response it created one of their
findings proved that people who were
raised with lots of hugs at home were
likely to continue hugging
effort ibly in their adult life the
study even went far as to say that
hugging is an important element in a
child's emotional upbringing while
hugging may be unnatural to some people
who grew up without doing it there are
others who go the opposite way this is
because some children who are raised
without any touch let alone hugs crave
the social interaction as adults and are
always seeking this type of affection in
a nutshell the way you were raised and
what happened to you as a child
determines a lot about how you feel
about things in life including the act
of being touched to social anxiety
social anxiety can play a huge role in
how people interact with one another and
touching can be an incredibly stressful
issue and social anxiety is incredibly
common in a study conducted at Rhode
Island Hospital in 2011 it was found
that women tended to have more social
anxiety than men in that they felt less
comfortable with physical touch than men
whether it's trauma induced or caused by
the way they were raised
social anxiety can greatly affect how
people like or don't like to be touched
this overwhelming anxiety can cause
people to become uncomfortable around
crowds of people and they often try to
maintain their own invisible bubble of
space to remain calm number three an
underdeveloped nerve yes that's right
it's possible to be physically turned
off by hugging when it has nothing to do
with your emotions the vagus nerve is a
bundle of nerves that can be found
between the spinal cord and abdomen if
this nerve is underdeveloped a person's
ability to become compassionate or
intimate can be altered this can also
mean a decrease in oxytocin a hormone
that's released by the posterior
pituitary gland
if oxytocin levels decrease people may
have a difficult time forming bonds with
other people some may even find it hard
to pick up certain social cues or they
might be less social due to the lack of
oxytocin being released into their
bodies
number four self-esteem issues the way
you handle yourself at social events in
intimate relationships and even with
family can greatly depend on your level
of self esteem people who lack
confidence can have a hard time when it
comes to touching and hugging a lack of
self esteem can also be a root cause of
social anxiety and other phobias number
five cultural differences similar to how
a person who is raised without hugging
is less likely to like touching people
in different cultures feel differently
about getting intimate check this out
people in the US and England tend to hug
and be more touchy than many people in
Puerto Rico and France neither way is
right or wrong they're just different
cultures with different ways of doing
things no matter the reason why a person
doesn't like to be touched it's
important to realize that you probably
don't know the whole story judging them
for not wanting a hug wouldn't be right
simply respect their space try to
understand that there may be other
reasons why they don't want to be
touched that have absolutely nothing to
do with you okay since you can't ask a
person you're meeting for the first time
if they were hugged enough as a child
that's kind of a weird question to ask a
stranger at a party don't you think then
how can you know if they don't want a
hug if you're worried about offending
someone who may not want to be touched
here are some signs to look out for one
a person immediately puts out their hand
suggesting a handshake instead of a hug
this is a great way to avoid a hug and
is still very polite and acceptable at
social gatherings but if you're a
germaphobe handshaking can be incredibly
stressful but that's a whole other issue
for another video
- they grimace as you go in for a hug
now this is a pretty clear sign that the
person is uncomfortable if a person has
an awkward look on their face upon
greeting you it's probably best not to
invade their space by
giving them a giant hug three as you
come in for the hug
they zap you with pepper spray again
this is a pretty clear sign hey I'm
kidding
whether you see either of the first two
signs or just aren't quite sure if a
person wants to be hugged it's best not
to touch them unless you've met them a
few times and are confident that they're
comfortable with hugs try greeting them
with a handshake or a friendly smile
it's better to be safe than sorry
well how do you feel about hugging if
you're the kind of person who hates
hugging and touching in general there's
nothing wrong with that
you're totally entitled to feel that way
but if you struggle with your aversion
to touch you should never be afraid to
establish some boundaries with others
it's okay to tell someone politely that
you'd rather not be hug simply shake
hands with people upon greeting them
many people can pick up on social cues
and will see that you'd rather not be
touched and if you ever feel
uncomfortable in a social situation it's
always okay to get up and leave your
boundaries are your boundaries and no
one should ever make you feel bad about
them whether you love giving hugs hate
giving hugs or just try to avoid
touching all together it's important to
remember that respecting the people
around you is key it never hurts to
communicate and listen to each other you
may learn more about a person than you
ever thought you could and when in doubt
handshake me hugs are just fine but I
try to avoid Huggies
you know disposable diapers especially
the warm and used kind but again that's
for another video
so do you know anyone who prefers not to
touch or hug tell us about your
experience in the comments section don't
forget to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click Subscribe
stay on the bright side
[Music]